---
layout: post
title: "Corda"
description: "An introduction about one of the blockchain targeted to finance applications"
comments: false
---

Corda is a Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT) developed to target financial industries use cases and for this reason the requirements are slightly different than other blockchain platforms.<br>
<br>
The main purpose is to be able to execute financial smart contracts that hold legal value and can be used in courts or in case of disputes. In order to do so, Corda developers decided to adopt a Turing-complete approach pretty similar to Ethereum.<br>
<br>
Each participant has to be authorized to participate, as the practice of consortium blockchains
indicates. A peculiarity of Corda is that every transaction is visible only to the financial institutions it affects, and this has repercussions on the architecture as a whole. <br>
<br>
To synthesize the salient differences to the mainstream blockchains:
* <b>Scalability</b>. In general, the restricted visibility of transactions is good to increase the throughput. An inevitable consequence is that Corda’s blockchain forms a Directed Acyclic Graph as transactions are merged and split. Since they still have to be processed and validated to guarantee the correctness there could be cases when the validator has to process the whole blockchain up to the genesis block. <br>
We can conclude that scalability depends very much by the structure of the DAG. <br>
<br>
* <b>Privacy</b>. Restricting the scope of visibility helps to strengthen privacy but it should be
noticed that the receiver of an asset becomes aware of the previous owners for validation
purposes, undermining the assumption that a financial deal will remain private and known
only to the participants. Corda addresses this issue with Bitcoin’s style mixers.<br>
<br>
* <b>Interoperability</b>. This is probably the strongest point in favor of Corda, indeed the choice of DAGs allows different financial institutions to merge their own blockchains without many problems, although this calls back the issue briefly discussed in the Scalability bullet point.<br>
<br>
The main complain about Corda is related to the used technique of avoiding double spending, the
so called “uniqueness” property.<br>
To solve it, indeed, Corda introduces the concept of Notary, a trusted third party. There is one and only one for each transaction and when more transactions have to be merged, a single Notary has to be elected, forcing all the participants to trust him. <br>
<br>
It is obvious that the introduction for trust in a trustless environment by default is something that raised a few eyebrows.<br>
<br>
All considered, Corda is an interesting solution for a specific portion of users, and it might give a few useful ideas for other use cases.<br>
<br>

### References 
[1] <i>Corda: An Introduction - Richard Gendal Brown, James Carlyle, Ian Grigg, Mike Hearn</i><br>
<br>
[2] <i>[Corda Documentation](https://docs.corda.net/)</i><br>
<br>
[3] <i>[Corda: deep dive and technical review](https://www.multichain.com/blog/2018/05/r3-corda-deep-dive-and-technical-review/)</i>


