---
layout: post
title: "Zerocash"
description: "No description"
comments: false
---

Zerocash is a decentralized cryptocurrency platform that aims at improving privacy of transaction through advanced cryptographic functions. It is designed to extend already existing coins, sometimes referred as “basecoin”, with two new types of transaction:
* Mint transaction: is the action of transforming basecoins to an equal amount of zerocoins
* Pour transaction: is the way of executing payments. It consumes zerocoins and outputs either zerocoins or basecoins, indeed it is used to convert back the currency. This action reveals the serial number of the coin but involved addresses and amounts remain anonymous.<br>
<br>
Indeed, although pseudonymized, blockchains are usually public and decentralized. Unavoidable consequence is that a curious/interested user can infer information about other participant’s habits.<br> 
Few companies have spotted market value in this and started building their core business around blockchain’s analysis, for the happiness of tax authorities which are now identifying users asking them to pay.<br>
<br>
On the other hand, Zerocash implements Zero Knowledge Proofs to verify transactions. Those kinds of proof reveal nothing beyond the validity of the assertion being proved, and thus provide a stronger guarantee of privacy and anonymity.<br> 
<br>
Properties of ZKP to be satisfied are:
* Completeness: honest provers will always be able to convince honest verifiers about the assertion validity<br>
* Soundness: probability of cheating provers to fool verifiers is very low<br>
<br>
SNARK stands for Succinct Non-interactive Arguments of Knowledge and is a specific type of Zero Knowledge Proof that is used in Zerocash because is shorter and more efficient to verify, allowing the system to be feasible in practice. Transactions are indeed less than 1kB and take less than 6ms to verify.<br>
<br>
Downside of Zerocash is the necessity to bootstrap the system generating SNARK parameters that have to be destroyed right afterward, otherwise it would be possible to generate valid zerocoins going undetected. They are being regarded as “toxic waste”. A complicated procedure has been employed to guarantee that, although, of course skeptical will be never convinced.<br>
<br>
Moreover, since the amount of zerocoins is anonymous by construction it is impossible to audit the correct functioning of the system even for unintentional bugs like the one that affected Bitcoin and provoked the generation of 184 billion of Bitcoin out of thin air.<br>
<br>
