---
layout: post
title: "Iota"
description: "No description"
comments: false
---

Central concern and limitation about blockchain is the scalability factor: there is a cap to the maximum number of transactions per second (7 tx/s in case of Bitcoin) and tinkering parameters like block size or generation frequency is only a naïve approach that does not solve the real problem.<br> 
Doing like that indeed has repercussion to the level of security of the system because blocks take longer to propagate, causing more forks and less computation becomes useful in the sense that secures the main chain.<br>  
<br> 
Directed Acyclic Graphs (DAGs) have been introduced to address this issue. Blockchains that use DAGs don’t expand in a mono-dimensional way, but blocks can have “uncles” and “nephews”. The main important property to allow tractability is to avoid loops, in that sense it’s acyclic.<br> 
<br>
Iota introduces its own DAG that is called “Tangle”. The rule for expanding the Tangle is that every new transaction has to confirm two previous ones, increasing their level of acceptance confidence. Not every transaction is equal but has a weight proportional to the amount of computation spent to “mine” it. Those weights drive the traversal algorithm of the Tangle that is probably Iota’s main innovation, basically providing a way to navigate through the chaos of concurrent transaction. Following the algorithm in not enforced but incentivized. Doing so and trusting other nodes to do the same permits the probabilistic steering of confirmations which in turn builds the graph of transactions. After enough confirmations, the transaction can be considered approved.<br>
<br>
A different design choice of Iota worth mentioning is to pre-mine the whole amount of available coins, literally taking away the mining reward.<br>
<br>
I believe Iota’s solution to be a very interesting one and underlying graph principles worth one being studied.<br>
<br>
