---
layout: post
title: "Ethereum"
description: "An introduction about the most famous smart contract platform"
comments: false
---

Ethereum was born in the universe of cryptocurrencies but aims at becoming more than that. Its philosophy has been to extend the potential of the scripting language, making it Turing-complete and, as a consequence, a general-purpose platform of computation. 
That means that in principle Ethereum could be used to implement any altcoin’s functionality.
This approach opens a lot of interesting use cases but brings some problems along with it. How, for example, could we prevent a user to deplete all the resources through a never-ending execution?
<br>
Ethereum’s approach has been to introduce a finite resource, called Gas, to make execution “pay-per-use”. Each instruction indeed costs Gas.
<br>
Being general-purpose oriented it can be used to implement a plethora of different services, from auctions to games (kittens and chess to name a few), escrowed payments, etc.
<br>
Smart contracts are code snippets that are hosted on the blockchain and executed by all the miners of the Ethereum blockchain. They are the means to execute distributed computations among entities that don’t trust each other.
<br>
Ethereum has taken some aggressive decision about parameter settings with respect to Bitcoin: block frequency is one every 10-15 seconds instead of 10 minutes. One of the consequences is that the order of transactions per second is about 25 i.e. 3-4 times Bitcoin’s but still very far from Visa’s and Mastercard’s figures.
<br>
Ethereum applies some advanced data structures called Patricia Merkle Tries. Those are used in regard to different aspects of the blockchain:
* States
* Transactions
* Receipts
* Storages
<br>
The head of the first three Tries (from State to Receipts) is included in each mined block.
Patricia Merkle Tries are constituted by four different kind of nodes:
* Null nodes
* Branch nodes
* Extension nodes
* Leaf nodes
Each with different fields and purposes.
<br>
Behind Ethereum there is a highly dynamic community and it is undergoing a lot of changes. There have been different releases and hard forks. It started as a Proof of Work (based on Ethash, a derivation of Keccak) but is transitioning to a Proof of Stake, and it also utilizes GHOST as a technique to select the main chain: each block has to specify a parent and 0 or more “uncles” as they are called.
<br>
The aim of Ethereum is ambitious, and there is a lot of curiosity about how it will evolve in the future.


<br>
<hr>
<br>

[1] <i>https://github.com/ethereum/wiki/wiki/White-Paper</i><br><br>


